One of our clients had purchased a policy
and had to pay lakhs of rupees in cancer claim.
If he had seen our Health
Insurance and Analyzer series,
he might not have made this mistake.  Welcome to our
Health Insurance Analyzer series.
In this series, we compare policies and
tell you which policy is good and which one you should
take.  Today we are going to talk
about the top notch policies of this country.
HDFC Ago Optima Sure and ICICI LB Elevat
are the Mercedes of health insurance and the features of these policies are very good.
So today in this comparison we will compare HDFC Ergo
Optima Secure and ICICI LBT Elevate.
Before we start,
like our video and subscribe
to our channel so that we can keep sharing such
interesting insights with you.
Let's start.
HDFC Ago and ICICI Lombard are the top NACH
insurers.  These people are bankers
from HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank.  The flagship products of both these companies
are HDFC Argo's
Optima Secure and ICICI Lombard's Elevate.
We have prepared a 12 point checklist
which you can see at the top of the screen and
will compare both the policies on these points.  Point number
one is room rent limit.  ICICI Lo LBA Elevate
has a single private AC room in the base policy
but you can make it no room rent limit by adding a room modifier.
HDFC Ergo
Optima Secure has no room rent limit in the base policy.
So there
is no room rent limit in both the policies.  So
thumbs up to both the policies.  Now let's talk about
point number two, copayment.  There
is no copayment in both the policies.
If you want to reduce the premium in ICICI Low LBA Elevate,
you can
introduce voluntary copayment.  If
you talk about deductible, it is a flat
payment that you have to pay in the first claim.
Deductible is available in HDFC Ago Optima Secure.  ICICI Low LMAT
Elevate does not have a deductible option.
So for the deductible option,
thumbs up to HDFC Ago Optima Secure and thumbs up to ICICI Lo LMA
Elevat.  Point number three,
sublimits on treatment of various diseases.
Cancer or kidney disease, all these diseases require
repeated treatment and insurance
puts a premium on the treatment of these diseases.  However, there
is no sub-limit on treatment of any disease in both HDFC ERCO Optema Secure and ICICI Low LMAT Elevate.  Both will pay
you for the treatment of the disease up to the sum insured.
So
thumbs up to both the policies, no supplements on treatment of
any diseases.  Now let's talk about point number
four which is a very important point.
Bonus: Both the policies have a slightly
complex bonus.  I will
explain it to you through an example.  ICICI LBA Elevate has a
20% bonus up to 100% on the base policy.
So, every year within the first 5 years, you will
get 20% bonus up to 100%.  Also you
add a rider whose name is Power
Booster.  So you get 100% bonus on top of 20%.
So in the first 5 years, ICICI Lobart
Elevate offers 1120% bonus and after 5 years
it becomes 100%.  If we
look at it through an example, in a policy of Rs 10 lakh, a
bonus of Rs 2 lakh
is available in the base policy and a bonus of Rs 10 lakh
is available due to the power booster.  So,
you will get a bonus of Rs 12 lakh in the first 5 years and
after that, after 5 years, you will
get a bonus of Rs 10 lakh for an unlimited number of years.  If we
talk about HDFC Ergo Optima Secure, then the
bonus there is year wise.  If
you take a 1 year policy, then in a policy of Rs 10 lakh,
it will become Rs 10 lakh from day one
and ultimately within 2 years it will
become a policy of Rs 40 lakh.  If you take a 3 year
policy called Optima
Super Secure, then it will become a policy of Rs 30 lakh from day one
and ultimately it will
become a policy of Rs 50 lakh.  So if you
compare the bonuses of both, you will realize that the
bonus of ICICI LBD Elevate is quite good
and it takes care of inflation.   The
bonus of HDFCO Optima Secure is
comparatively lower when compared to
ICICI LBAD Elevate. So in the bonus area,
ICICI LBD Elevate gets thumbs up and HDFC Ergo
Optima Secure gets thumbs down. Point number five:
Restoration Benefit: The
most important benefit of today's policies is that if you use the sum insured of Rs 10 lakh, then the
restoration
benefit will be triggered and
you can use the base sum insured for an unlimited number of times.
Unlimited restoration is available in both ICICI Lombard Elevate and HDFC Ago Opt Secure.
And there is no variation in this between same
person same illness and same person different
illness.  You
can use both instantly.  So
both policies get a thumbs up for
unlimited restoration.  Now let's come to point
number six.  Pre and post
hospitalization cover.  If you
look at ICICI Lombard Elevate, all the tests and doctor consultations are covered for 90 days
before hospitalization and 180 days
after hospitalization.
Whereas HDFC
Ergo Optima Secure has a cover of 60 days before
hospitalization and 180 days after
hospitalization.
Prehospitalization cover is higher in ICICI LBD Elevate.
So thumbs up to ICICI Lo LBA Elevate
in pre and post hospitalization,
thumbs down to HDFC Ergo Optima Secure.
Now let's come to point number seven.
Consumable cover.  What is a consumable cover
?  PPE kits, syringes, thermometers,
all these things should be covered by your health
insurance policy.
Consumable cover is available with ICICI LBD Elevate by adding a rider.
Whereas in HDFCO Optima Secure it
is inbuilt in the base policy.  So
consumable cover is available in both the policies.
So thumbs up to both the policies
for consumable cover.  Point number at
maternity cover.  If we talk about ICICI LBA Elevate, there is a
waiting period of 2 years
for maternity cover and the maternity cover
is available at 10% of the sum insured.  By adding a rider to it, you can reduce that waiting
period from 2 years to one year.
If you talk about HDSCR Optima Secure,
here also there is a waiting period of 2 years
and the sum insured varies from ₹50,000
to ₹2 lakh.  You can choose whatever you want to choose.
But according to us, the
premium loading of both the policies
because of maternity is very high
and you should not consider maternity in both the policies.
So both ICICI
Dombard Elevate and HDFC Ago Optima
Secure get thumbs down for maternity.
Point number nine hospital network.  If you
see, HDFC Ago Optima Secure has
nearly 14,000 cashless hospitals
available.  And ICICI LMB Elevate
also has nearly about the same hospital network
available.  So if we compare the hospital network, then
both the insurances have almost the same hospital network.  So
thumbs up to both the insurers for the hospital
network.  Point No. 10 Unlimited
Claims.  Nowadays,
a new concept of unlimited claims has come into existence in health insurance policies.
This means that
in a policy of Rs 10 lakh, you can take unlimited claims of Rs 1 crore, 2 crore, 3 crore once
during the lifetime
of the policy.  So in ICICI Low LBA
Elevate it is available once and in HDFC Ago
Optima Secure it
is available as per the sum insured.  If you
take a policy below Rs 50 lakh, you will
get unlimited claim once.  If you
take a policy above Rs 50 lakh, you will
get unlimited claims twice.  So
thumbs up to both the policies.
This feature is provided better in HDFCO Optima Secure as per
the sum amount.  Now let's come to point
number 11.  Point number 11 is
Pre-existing Diseases Waiting Period.   The
waiting period for pre-existing diseases is 3 years in both the policies.  And
coverage for asthma, blood pressure, diabetes and cholesterol
is available in both the policies.  If you pay a higher premium, the
waiting period for these four diseases will be
waived off.  In ICICI Low LBA
Elevate, if you take a policy for one adult, one child or
two adults, then the
premium loading is less.  Whereas HDFC
Ergo Optima Secure has flat loading of
25 to 30%.  So both the policies get
thumbs up for waiting period waiver for
asthma, blood pressure, diabetes,
cholesterol and both the policies have a
waiting period of 3 years.  There
is a slight advantage in ICI Lombard Elevate that if
you have more people then the loading is less.
Now let's come to point number 12
Most Point Claims Experience.
What is the claims experience like with both insurers?  HDFC Ergo Optima
Secure's claims experience is tried and
tested.  The policy has been running for three to four years
and claims have started coming in now.  There
is good claims experience and the
insurer is so run-of-the-mill that he can
pass the claims well.  At the same time
ICICI LBD Elevate is not a policy.  So it will take
time for the claims to come here.  But our
experience in ICICI LBAT Elevate is also top
notch.  So, according to us, the claims experience of both HDFC Ago
Optima Secure and ICICI LBA Elevate
is top notch.  So
now let's talk about what is conclusion?
Which is the superior policy among the two policies
?  See ICICI LBD Elevate and HDFC Ago
Optima Secure both are top notch policies
from top notch insurers where the claims
experience is quite good.  Since ICICI
LBA Elevate is a new product, the
bonus is given very well
so that you never run out of the sum insured.
But at the same time, HDFC Ago is also a good
insurer and their claim settlement
experience is quite good.  So
according to us, if someone who is 30 to 35 years old
or a middle-aged person
wants to take a policy, then both the policies
are quite good but ICICI
LBAT Elevate has a slight advantage because of the bonus.  So
according to us both the policies
are recommended.
ICICI LBT Elevate has moved slightly ahead.  Comment below to let us know
which health insurance policy you have
and also tell us which are the
next two policies you would like to compare.